#LyX file created by tex2lyx 1.6.1
\lyxformat 247
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard

Several quantum mechanical phenomena can be described in terms of simple harmonic oscillators modified by the inclusion of linear friction. An understanding of such oscillators is therefore of use. The Hamiltonian developed by Herman Feshbach 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{kang07}

\end_inset

 to analyze these oscillators has eigenvalues 
\begin_inset Formula $\hbar \Omega (n_{A} - n_{B}) \pm \frac{i \hbar R}{2 m}
(n_{A} + n_{B} + 1)$
\end_inset

, where 
\begin_inset Formula $\Omega$
\end_inset

 is the reduced frequency and 
\begin_inset Formula $R$
\end_inset

 measures the strength of the friction. Since the real part has no lower bound, the partition sum immediately diverges. The effects of the unprecedented complexity of values in a partition function are unknown. Several approaches are examined, including separation and / or recoupling of the Hamiltonian, placing restrictions on the ensemble membership, and studying the time evolution and correlations of the system. A solution is found after observing that the spectrum of the Hamiltonian cannotbe uniquely specified now that the Hamiltonian is no longer the energy, and so use of Hamiltonian eigenvalues in the partition sum is improper. By determining that the energy eigenvalues are the proper input (leaving traditional thermodynamics unchanged) we solve for the statistical mechanics of the damped system, showing that the damping has no effect. 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
